[Music]
twelve life hacks that can help you
survive in an emergency situation the
first thing that comes to mind is the
advice of your friends or your family
however sometimes even the most
well-known and popular recommendations
turn out to be wrong and harmful did you
know applying ice to a bruise is not the
best idea and lifting up an unconscious
person might lead to severe consequences
here are the 12 dealing with a foreign
object in the eye first things first if
there's something in your eye like a
piece of glass don't do anything
yourself have someone Drive you to the
hospital if the object is just an
eyelash then don't forget to wash your
hands before you do anything try to
locate the eyelash by looking in a
mirror blink to make your tears wash the
eyelash out once the object is in the
corner of your eye take a wet piece of
cloth and use it to remove the eyelash
number 11 applying ointment to a wound
point mints contain unwanted moisture
which is a great environment for
bacteria to reproduce more quickly the
best thing you can do is clean the wound
in cool water with soap and put a dry
bandage on it you will see that the
wound will heal more quickly
number 10 rubbing a person with a fever
with alcohol or vinegar vinegar and
alcohol are absorbed into the blood so
it's kind of a way to get drunk or to
make a wacky salad dressing seriously
speaking alcohol rubbing may create
intoxication while vinegar will
significantly raise acidity which is
especially dangerous for children so
don't believe these outdated pieces of
advice drink a lot of water tea and
other non-alcoholic fluids cool the air
in the room to a temperature of 61 to 64
degrees Fahrenheit or from 16 to 18
degrees Celsius in these conditions
patient will get over the fever by
themselves if they don't they should see
a doctor number nine
lifting up an unconscious person if
someone faints you have to lift them up
and sprinkle some cold water on them
right well that's what most people think
like this video if you thought so
however lifting a fainted person up will
only aggravate the spasm what you should
do is lift their legs up unbutton any
tight pieces of clothing and don't let
them stand up right after they come
around after they regained consciousness
don't let them drink coffee or energy
drinks that many people love caffeine
will only lead to dehydration number
eight treating burns with butter or sour
cream many people believe that this
method is effective only because it
relieves pain but why do butter and sour
cream make you feel better
the thing is we keep them in the fridge
so when we put them on a burn they're
cold
the danger is though that butter and
sour cream dry your skin and disrupt
thermal exchange this results in heat
having nowhere to go but deeper into the
skin causing even more damage what you
should do is hold your hand in the cool
water for 15 minutes this will help with
the pain do you know why blisters appear
on the burnt spot in our bodies
everything happens for a reason
blisters protect the wound from
infection removing the protective layer
may lead to fester a number 7 setting a
bone on your own are you a professional
trauma surgeon if not you should never
set a dislocated joint on your own no
matter how cool or brutal that looks in
the movies it may result in additional
injuries and the resulting litigation
the best course of action would be to
immobilize the injured limb and go to
the hospital as soon as possible
bandaged the limb in a comfortable
position in mobilizing not only the
place of possible fracture but also the
two closest joints as well
number six applying warmth to a spring
when your muscles are sprained a warm
cloth won't help on the contrary
heat will strengthen the blood flow
leading to a more severe swelling in the
first days after the injury apply coal
it will lessen the inflammation and kill
the pain try to use the sprain limb as
little as possible for at least the
first 48 hours number five making
yourself vomit in case of poison the
standard recommendation for poisoning is
to make yourself vomit
it might sound reasonable but actually
it's strictly prohibited first of all
the poison can get into the lungs and
damage them the second problem is that
if someone was poisoned with some
chemicals vomiting doubles the chance of
burning your throat finally it might be
very difficult to stop vomiting once it
starts so this can lead to dehydration
and even more severe consequences in
this situation the only smart thing you
can do is call the ambulance as fast as
possible number four rescuing a drowning
person there's only one obstacle on your
way to rescue a drowning person not
being able to swim if you are though
nothing can stop you from saving that
person's life remember to approach them
from behind so they don't see you coming
otherwise the person may hinder you or
drag you down in their panic after
you've approached the person grab them
under the armpits or by the chin and
move to the shore keeping their head at
your belly number three
pulling out objects from wounds now you
can pull a splinter from a finger or a
small glass shard from your hand but you
must never try to pull out objects from
serious wounds even doctors keep them in
place until the patient is in surgery
the thing is while the object is inside
the wound it doesn't let the bleeding
start so until you are under
professional supervision don't do
anything not even touch the object the
only thing you can do is put some
alcohol on the wound
but you must be ready for the wound to
hurt very much well that's a splinter no
matter how scary a knife in a leg looks
like don't try to be a hero and just go
to the hospital
number two applying ice to a bruise
there is nothing actually wrong with
treating a bruise with ice but most
people do it wrong you shouldn't apply
ice directly to the skin if you don't
want to get a cold burn instead put a
cloth between your skin and a pack of
ice however even using a cloth doesn't
mean there is no risk of being burnt
this why you should put ice for a
maximum of 20 minutes at a time and then
take a 90 minute break if for some
reason you don't have a cloth you can
use don't use ice at all believe us
you'd prefer to have a bruise rather
than a cold burn another thing you
should know is that there is no point in
using ice 48 hours after the injury and
number one using stitches to close cuts
it's not wrong to use stitches in most
cases it's the only way to close a wound
but putting stitches is a long and
painful procedure which requires
removing the stitches after the wound
heals so in some cases a less brutal
thing might work skin glue skin glue is
very quick and virtually painless wash
the wound with cold water before using
glue then stop the bleeding by pressing
the wound close the edges of the wound
and put skin glue along it however if
you see that the wound is too big
don't take the risk and go to the
hospital for professional help please
like this video if you found it useful
and tell us your first-aid stories in
the comment section below share with
your friends so they won't feel confused
about what to do when somebody needs
help and of course click subscribe to
join us right here on the bright side of
life